It's been a botched operation. The
president's [music] a keen observer of
the economy and he understands that this
is hurting the very working and middle
class Americans who he campaigned for
and I do believe he's looking for an
off-ramp to end the war. [music] Ro
Khanna, a Democratic Congressman from
Silicon Valley. He forced the release of
the Epstein files.
>> We just need it all out there. We need
transparency.
>> Now he's trying to stop the Iran war and
talking about how his party can win over
America. We are going to build a
cohesive,
multi-racial democracy where everyone
has an economic stake. That in my view
is where the heart and soul of the
American people are.
From Bloomberg Weekend,
>> [music]
>> this is the Michelle Hussein show.
The war with Iran has been longer and
more costly than it appears the US and
Israel imagined when it all began. And
even when hostilities cease,
it's likely to have a long impact on
energy, aviation, shipping, confidence
of many kinds. In our last two episodes,
we've stepped beyond the headlines to
add depth and context to what we're all
seeing play out on the news.
And this time, we've gone for a view
from Capitol Hill where lawmakers did
not get a say on this use of force.
Congressman Ro Khanna has been in the
House of Representatives since 2017.
He's elected from an incredibly wealthy
district in California. It's home to
some of America's biggest tech giants
and to some of Silicon Valley's most
prominent individuals. If you recognize
his name but aren't quite sure why, it's
probably because of the Epstein files.
He was one of the two congressmen who
forced the US Department of Justice to
release thousands of documents. And in
this conversation, he tells me how that
experience has given him a new
confidence to pursue his goals on other
fronts, including taxing billionaires
and ending this war. He's a Democrat
from the progressive wing of the party
and as you'll hear, he might just be
running for president in 2028.
So here it is, a political take on the
war in Iran, the future of the
Democratic Party, and yes, those files.
Congressman, many more people know who
you are today than was the case a year
ago and that is because of your work on
the Epstein files over so many months.
Tell me how and when you first heard of
his name, Jeffrey Epstein.
I heard years ago when during the first
Trump administration,
there was reporting about survivors who
had been raped, abused by this man,
Jeffrey Epstein, and that there had been
a cover-up and not appropriate
prosecution. And at that time, Elijah
Cummings was the chair of the Oversight
Committee and we put out a statement
saying we should investigate it. But
then I didn't think much of it. I had
pushed for investigation but it really
resurfaced when
there was a lot of press coverage by
Julia Brown and others with the Donald
Trump campaign and I started to follow
it closely about these survivors who had
been abused and abandoned by our Justice
Department.
>> Did it feel nevertheless like a big move
for you to get involved as you had
because look, you represent Silicon
Valley, one of the wealthiest and most
powerful places in the country, if not
the planet, and your own writing and
work has been a lot about the future of
the economy and the future of tech. And
then here you were going out on a limb
for the Epstein survivors.
Well, I didn't realize quite how many
powerful people would be implicated. The
the reason I did it initially is I
understood how much of this an issue
this was to a lot of people, that sense
that there are two tiers of justice in
America, that the rich and powerful can
get away with something that ordinary
Americans can't. I had visited factory
towns, Trump districts, podcasters and I
understood that this was a matter of
fairness for a lot of Americans. As I
got more deeply involved at with the
partnership with Massie, I met the
survivors and it became a very personal
and emotional issue for me, people in my
office in tears reliving their trauma
and I would never have expected that
this would become a cause
that I would end up getting so involved
in and championing, but it was an
organic process of really getting to
know these survivors and being horrified
about how they were treated.
>> Thomas Massie, of course, the Republican
Congressman you worked with on this.
To date, what do you feel you have
achieved in terms of the justice? Some
of the names are out there. Clearly in
the UK where I am, there has been a
process of accountability for some that
appears to be underway. What do you feel
you have achieved in concrete terms in
the US? Well, we forced the disclosure
of over 3 million files, half the files
which people never thought would be
disclosed and it's been a moral
reckoning for the United States and the
world to see so many powerful
financiers, politicians, technology
leaders, Hollywood leaders caught up
with Epstein, what I've called an
Epstein class, rich and powerful people
who thought that their wealth and their
connections shielded them from any
accountability, elite impunity. And now
there is a reckoning with that in
different countries. In some cases, it's
led to resignations of powerful people
from banks and from universities. In
America though, we need to do more. We
need to have investigations of people
who gave vast amounts of money to
Epstein. We need to have investigations
of those who have been credibly accused
of raping and trafficking and there need
to be prosecutions. But what this has
shown the nation is that there are
people like Massie and me willing to
stand up to the powerful, willing to say
that you can't have elite impunity,
willing to say that there needs to be
one system of justice in this country
and that's the first step to restoring
trust in a democratic project.
>> Do you think that prosecutions will come
in the US? I know that after the release
of the files, you one of the people
allowed to see
unredacted files. Give us a sense of
what that experience was like. How many
names were there that really jumped out
at you, especially in relation to
the body of what was written underneath
those names? Well, the unredacted files
were heavily redacted because there were
already redactions done by the FBI in
March and there still needs to be these
302 forms that are released, statements
of survivors to the FBI about who abused
them, who raped them. We recently saw a
cover-up where the woman who accused
Donald Trump, and these are just
allegations, one of her interviews was
released but the three of them that
mentioned Trump were not released and
then it was only because Nancy Mace and
myself and Massie and journalists pushed
that the DOJ relented and now have
released those three other interview
memorandum. Like that, there many other
witness interview memorandum that still
need to be released. I'm not saying that
all of the allegations are true or not,
that's for the investigation and
prosecution and American people to
decide, but what there shouldn't be is a
cover-up, which is a violation of the
law. It shouldn't be members of Congress
having to expose this. There needs to be
the release of the rest of the files.
And some of the people whose names are
in there say that while they were
associated with Jeffrey Epstein, some of
them say that they had no knowledge of
his crimes. I wonder if you have
reflected at all on the way that you
phrased it in the act, which I which I
read through in preparation for the
interview. This is the act that you
spearheaded and which in the end Donald
Trump said Republicans in Congress could
vote for. You made it impossible for him
to withstand. But the fact that you put
this very tight time frame in there,
that not later than 30 days after the
date of the act, the Justice Department
had to release the files. On reflection,
do you think some of that led to the
very messy nature of what ensued, that
some of the names of the victims and
really difficult details for them did
end up becoming public?
No, because the Oversight Committee had
subpoenaed for these files back in
August. So the Department of Justice had
months to be preparing this and the fact
that they weren't preparing this is a
total
violation of the law. Our law kicked in
in November, but they should have
already been preparing all of this back
in August and they could have petitioned
for more time to confer with the
survivors' lawyers, but they refused to
meet with the survivors' lawyers. They
refused to meet with Massie and me. They
refused to meet with any people to take
help. And then the first round, they
basically released nothing and then they
waited another month to release more
information. So they delayed as is. So
the only thing that explains this is
both a cover-up and incompetence at the
DOJ. So where do things stand now? Do
you think that
you all going to get further along the
road towards more accountability,
towards prosecutions because now this
has moved away from the news agenda, not
least because of this war?
Well, it's moved away from the front
pages, but there are still many
Americans are outraged by what happened
and they're outraged on behalf of the
survivors, hundreds of survivors who
were raped or abused who haven't had
justice, but they're outraged at the
larger thought that you can't have a
group of people who are rich and
powerful and because of their
connections, because of their wealth,
believe they're above the law. That
undermines the very trust in the nature
of the democratic project. That it
undermines the sense that a government
isn't corrupt and beholden to a few. And
if you are like me, a progressive
Democrat who believes we need to tackle
wealth inequality, that we need national
health insurance, that we need universal
child care, that we need a living wage,
that we need a free public college and a
thousand new trade schools, a new
economic patriotism, then you need to
restore trust in the democratic project
and that means holding this Epstein
class accountable. And so we will
continue to fight for it. This is not a
about being in the news cycle or being
on the headlines. This is about a
commitment to restoring our democracy
with one system of justice. I do want to
explore that, the link between the work
on the Epstein files and other causes
and issues which you're passionate
about. In these last 6-8 months that
you've worked on this, what has it done
to you? Has it given you a new resolve,
a new courage, a new
determination that if you needle at
something and you get the administration
in into a corner that you can achieve
something?
Well, it's given me a new confidence
that we can build a new governing
coalition in America. This is the first
time since Donald Trump came down the
escalator that a Democrat has actually
worked with Trump voters, that we've
actually found common cause with many
people who voted for Donald Trump. And
they voted for Donald Trump partly
because they thought we have a corrupt
system and rich and powerful people were
getting away with things and corrupting
our government. And what I said is let's
work together to hold people accountable
who affiliated with a pedophile and
perhaps either covered up for him or
themselves engaged in sex trafficking
and abuse. And that was a very powerful
coalition that got unanimous votes in
the Senate and 427 votes in the house
and that forced Donald Trump to sign my
bill.
It showed that you can build a new
coalition. I believe we will build a new
coalition in America with a commitment
against elite impunity, with a
commitment against new wars. That means
essentially a coalition with disaffected
MAGA voters. Is that what you mean? That
you're hoping for a split in MAGA and
you'll take advantage of that? Well, it
means having progressives who have been
calling for holding the elite
accountable. It means
having progressives who have been
calling for tackling wealth inequality
and against these endless wars. It means
independent voters who have recognized
that there needs to be a reform in a
country where too few have
power and that there isn't a sense of
equal justice for all. And it means some
of the voters for Donald Trump who were
upset by the corruption in our
government, who had lost faith in the
democratic process project, who have
been upset that we've been going to
these foreign wars, that they can come
along in a true coalition that's going
to put working and middle class
Americans first and take on a society
that has been tilted to the very
powerful. That is the modern FDR
coalition. It is a coalition that's
going to win in my view in the future of
American politics. Was standing
alongside Marjorie Taylor Greene with
Epstein survivors an example of that
when when she was in Congress, you were
were you one of those trying to get her
off committees and you were clearly no
no fan of her. Does it mean that you
then you make new friends in the
interest of something bigger? Well, I
think we have to look for common ground
and with Marjorie Taylor Greene, she
showed a lot of courage in standing up
for survivors, risked her political
career for it. And we were talking
before she left with Congress of
expanding Medicare. We were talking
about possibly dealing with a housing
crisis. So what we need to do in this
country is not to shame voters who voted
for Donald Trump, but to approach them
and to engage in dialogue, not to
compromise our values on abortion rights
or LGBT rights or immigrant rights, but
to approach people who may have voted
for Trump and say why did they have such
anger at the system? What is it about
the country that's not in the right
direction and where can we find common
ground to offer a new national purpose
for America that heals the divides and
offers a pathway for economic
independence for every family in the
21st century. So where does your effort
to stop this war fit into all of that?
Because you haven't had any luck yet in
getting for example your war powers
resolution through Congress. Are you
essentially hoping that the mood of the
country turns against the president on
this? Well, we've made a tremendous
progress. When I used to introduce these
war powers resolutions to try to stop
the war in Yemen or stop other
unilateral actions, sometimes I was seen
as fringe. Now I had the entire
Democratic leadership supporting my
efforts from Hakeem Jeffries on down. We
had almost every Democrat but four
unified and we got two Republicans. But
most Americans realize that spending $2
billion a day in Iran is an
extraordinary waste of resources. We've
already lost unfortunately 13 service
members. So we need to find a way of
ending this war and I believe that
that's where American public sentiment
is. What is that way? That that's what
I'm wondering. What are what are the
levers that you can pull?
Well, first to stop the bombing, stop
the actions that that we're undertaking
with our military and then to be very
clear to the Iranian regime, which by
the way now we have Khamenei Jr. instead
of Khamenei. I don't know understand
what we've accomplished. We have a
56-year-old hardliner instead of an
86-year-old. But to be very clear that
they cannot develop nuclear weapons and
that they cannot continue to enrich
uranium, to engage with Oman in in those
negotiations and that they should not be
and cannot be hitting ships in the
Strait of Hormuz. But that requires
diplomacy and statesmanship and I
believe we can do that and we can look
at what a negotiated settlement with
Iran is that denies them nuclear
capability. Do do you think the
president is looking for some kind of
off-ramp now? Do you think this has not
gone according to what he was promised
or what he was expecting?
I do believe he is concerned in
particular because the price of gas in
America, the price of oil has gone
through the roof. I mean, it was
incompetence. He was told apparently by
some advisers that the Strait of Hormuz
would be fine, that Iran wouldn't shoot
ships. So it's been a botched operation.
It's led most tragically to the loss of
life. The president's a keen observer of
the economy and the stock market and the
price of gas. He understands that this
is hurting the very working and middle
class Americans who he campaigned for
and I do believe he's looking for an
off-ramp to end the war. Ultimately, we
need the kind of diplomacy, tough
diplomacy that President Obama showed
and that kind of statesmanship on the
world stage. Yeah, I mean, obviously
you're convinced of what you're saying
and you you seem to think that President
Trump has come to something of the same
conclusion. There's nothing in his
public statements that's suggesting that
at the time of our speaking. Are you
picking up on something behind the
scenes or are you hearing from
Republicans in the house or elsewhere on
Capitol Hill that
they feel the same way as you, they just
don't feel able to do it publicly as
yet? Well, Trump's statements are all
over the place. One day he says we're
going to end the war, we won the war.
The other day he says no, the war is
going to continue. So it's very hard to
see where his head's at. But what I am
hearing from house colleagues,
Republican colleagues and from MAGA
influencers is that they're concerned
about the price of gas going up. They're
concerned about more American lives
being lost. They're concerned that we're
not able to change the regime as many of
us were warning that regime change wars
are just not achievable unless there's
huge cost of ground troops. They
understand that young men in this
country don't want to be drafted or sent
out to die to Iran or the Middle East.
And so there's increasing pressure on
the president. Now, he has a strong base
of support still among Republican
elected officials and they're going to
give him some time, but I I believe the
pressure is is going to continue to
mount and there are other war powers
resolutions including by moderate
Democrats like Josh Gottheimer that will
come up for a vote. But in the meantime,
you said something the other day which
really stuck in my mind where you spoke
about militarism. You said what what is
happening now is a militarism that is
going to erode the soul of America.
I mean, that is a very stark prospect
and perhaps a more real prospect than
the glossier version of what you're
telling us that this is going to come to
an end soon. So tell me about your tell
me about your fears of what the really
dark side of all of this could be. Well,
it's more about the president's approach
to world affairs where he felt impunity
to go in and topple Maduro. He is
threatening the Cuban regime with regime
change. He's threatening to conquer
Greenland. He's threatening other
nations where there may be unsavory
characters who are leading. This has
remnants of kind of gunboat diplomacy
where might makes right, where Prime
Minister Carney quoted Thrasymachus in
Greek philosophy that somehow the world
should be where power goes. That is
pre-enlightenment thinking. The entire
democratic project, the American project
was this view that we have respect for
human rights, we have a respect for
self-determination of people, we have a
respect for sovereignty and then America
will lead a world committed to human
rights and peace. And so Trump is in a
tradition that
is not for that vision. But I believe a
younger generation of Americans do
believe in a multiracial democracy that
will work towards that end and we're
going to prevail in 2026 and 2028.
>> Well, President Trump's got Maduro, got
Khamenei. Do you think that Cuba could
well be next? Is that now a more
realistic prospect after Iran? Well,
there's concern and that's why I have
spoken out that what we need is a
negotiated deal in Cuba the likes what
Ben Rhodes negotiated under Obama, that
you could have Cuban nationals in
Florida and around the country investing
in Cuba, helping create economic
redevelopment in Cuba. The Cuban
government could be up for that and
lifting some of the travel restrictions
and sanctions. That would be in the
interest of lot of the Cuban expats who
are in the United States and it'd be in
Cuba's interest. But what we can't do is
try to topple regimes. And Trump has a
infatuation with that, obviously. But he
also has another wing of his party that
has been opposed to these overseas wars.
And my sense is that it's a continual
tug-of-war with him. And I am pushing
for the side that will get him to stop
this kind of military threats. Um let's
talk about you, cuz you were talking
about having a new confidence after your
achievements through the Epstein files.
And I was thinking about your
background, um your parents having come
to the US from India,
and about the fact that in some ways
your work is part of your family life,
in that your grandfather was a was a
member of Parliament in India.
Well, he was jailed by the British
monarchy. He was part of Gandhi's
independence movement in the early
1930s. He was working for Lala Lajpat
Rai. And then in the 1940s, I
uh chuckled when I saw one of the
British papers uh the headline, British
monarchy jailed grandfather, grandson in
United States Congress may topple the
British monarchy. Not that that's my
goal, but after former Prince Andrew was
arrested, there were several headlines
like that. Uh I do think that my
commitment to justice, my commitment to
self-determination for nations, my
commitment to moving beyond a colonial
model of the world, stem from the values
of my faith of Gandhi and Hinduism, uh
and from the example of my grandfather.
In those days, of course, America was
very much pushing Britain that, you
know, telling Britain that the age of
the colonies is over and that it was
essential at the Second World War to
allow nations to become independent.
Yeah, Roosevelt basically told
Churchill, stop it. Churchill had no
choice but to relent. And of course, I
give credit, of course, to people in the
Indian independence movement, as well.
Yeah, but I just wondered whether now
what you're describing about America's
actions on the world stage, would you
call it neocolonialism? The desire to
have a pliant government in Venezuela
under America's control. And the
President Trump intervening in other
parts of the world in a way that he
never suggested he would in his
campaign.
Well, the interventions are wrong, and
it pales in comparison to the evils of
British colonialism. I mean, that was
generations of exploitation of people in
India and Africa that are
unconscionable. But do I think that
President Trump has taken actions in
violation with American ideals? I do.
But I believe that that is a actions
that aren't reflective of the emerging
majority
in the United States of America. Are you
running for president in 2028? Well,
we'll see. I'm focused on having Hakeem
Jeffries become speaker. And you know,
the politics is like tennis. If you
start thinking about who's going to win
the set, you'll lose the point at hand.
So,
I'm focused right now on building a
majority. But I have a new moral vision
for the country that respects the rights
and sovereignty and territorial
integrity of other nations. Yeah, I
mean, particularly I ask these questions
in relation to what you're saying about
the use of of force, because I mean, I'm
trying to think of a of an American
president who hasn't sent forces into
into action elsewhere in the world. It
is a part of the exercise of
presidential power more often than it is
not. What would your guiding light be on
on committing American forces overseas?
Well, the self-defense of the nation. If
America is attacked, uh
we or if there's an imminent threat, we
of course need to use force. I've been
on the Armed Services Committee for over
10 years. And when we were hit on 9/11,
I initially supported the strikes
against Al-Qaeda. I didn't support the
20-year war, but I think it was
absolutely correct to go after Al-Qaeda
that struck the United States. If there
was an imminent threat to our national
security, to our homeland, to our bases,
then America must be prepared to use
force. The problem here in Iran is there
was no imminent threat to the United
States homeland. And the use of force in
ways that aren't just for our national
security weakens the United States
relative to China, and weakens actually
our standing in the world. Before the
Epstein files, the work you were really
um known for, as I've said before, was a
lot of work on the economy and your work
on wealth taxes. You've supported a
federal wealth tax, a tax on
billionaires. You've also backed a
similar measure at home in California.
Uh tell me where that comes from,
because I think the reason it's
surprising from you is that given the
kinds of people who put you on Capitol
Hill, they are the billionaires. They
are the people who would be targeted by
the very taxes you're now supporting.
Well, the people who put me in Capitol
Hill are my voters, uh who are engineers
at Google and
uh technologists and uh and some
teachers and working-class folks. And
And of course, I come from one of the
most affluent districts. But uh the the
voters there are not uh the
billionaires. I mean, there may be 200
some billionaires in California and a
thousand billionaires across the
country. So, my allegiance is with the
working and middle class. It always has
been since I ran for Congress, since I
co-chaired Bernie Sanders' uh campaign.
I have no problem, and I celebrate
entrepreneurship, innovation, wealth
generation. But we have a failed social
contract when we have 19 billionaires
who have 12.5% of the GDP. That is three
times the wealth concentration of the
Gilded Age with Rockefeller, Morgan,
Carnegie, and Vanderbilt. And what I've
said and what Bernie Sanders has said is
that we need a modest wealth tax on
these billions of dollars that aren't
being taxed because they are just
sitting there without ever paying an
income tax. And that that funding could
pay for the health care and child care
and education of all Americans, so that
every American has an ownership stake in
the modern economy. But when you first
ran for Congress, you did have big
donations from some of those very
prominent people in Silicon Valley. The
Valley, they were the ones supporting
you. And I imagine some of them have
been quite upset with you since. No, I
still have a lot of support from
technology leaders. And
uh and the contributions, I've never
taken PAC or lobbyist money. Uh so, I
get contributions, but they're limited
at $3,500 in election cycle. But I still
have a tremendous amount of support from
many technology and business leaders.
It's just a myth that uh you know, the
Elon Musks and Peter Thiels sort of
reflect Silicon Valley. I would say that
as my reports will show in the next
quarter that I have broad-based
technologists and business leaders who
support me, as I do labor leaders, who
understand that the current wealth
inequality is not sustainable. And you
have thoughtful people in the Valley,
people like Dario Amodei at Anthropic,
people like Jeff Dean at Google, uh
people like Jensen Huang at Nvidia, who
understand that uh we need to build a
new social contract with safety on AI
and empowering [clears throat] ordinary
Americans. And that's the kind of FDR
coalition that I believe we need to
build. Not one that just disparages
business leaders, but asks business
leaders to be economic patriots. Asks
not America to do for Silicon Valley,
but Silicon Valley to do for America.
At the state level, do you acknowledge
the risk that places can get hollowed
out in actually a similar way to what
happened to former industrial places.
You describe it in your book. That even
Silicon Valley, storied as it is,
people can move away, companies can move
away. That if you don't safeguard an
ecosystem, and you make sure people
aren't thinking that Texas or Florida
are more attractive places with their
taxation, that there is something
important at stake. Absolutely. But the
idea that the AI revolution is going to
happen in Miami or Austin is only a
sound bite for people who don't know
anything about the AI revolution. I
mean, the reason it's in my district and
all over Silicon Valley is because we
have Stanford and we have Berkeley and
we have Google and we have Apple. And
even if some of the founders may leave,
their employees base is still there. And
the San Jose State is there. And the
ecosystem is there. So, what we need to
do, what's actually threatening it is
the cuts to NSF, the cuts to NIH, the
cuts to university research, the
restrictions on immigration, the blanket
tariffs. Those are the things that pose
threats. Now, we want to make sure that
we don't tax uh paper billionaires and
illiquid assets. And we need to make
sure that we're not taxing voting
shares. And of course, there things that
have to be done uh properly in designing
a billionaire tax. And you should have
thoughtful economists, people like Daron
Acemoglu as an MIT Nobel laureate at
MIT, or Simon Johnson, or others help in
the technical construction of of the of
these ideas. But one can have a tax on
billionaires of a modest amount and
still have a vibrant ecosystem of
innovation. So, you're confident it's
not going to cost you your seat, cuz you
have now got a challenger in California
who's being funded by people with a very
different view on that tax. Well, I take
nothing for granted, and we will always
campaign hard in the district. But you
know, my belief is that most people in
America and the most people in my
district believe that everyone should
have health care, and people should have
child care, and that the cost of living
is too high, and that we need not to
just see the massive wealth inequality,
that we need a social contract where
people can succeed, but working and
middle-class families can have economic
security and economic independence. This
is the theme that you've mentioned
several times in this conversation. That
progressive coalition, that new social
contract. Is that the firm conclusion
that you have come to after the last
presidential election defeat? That it is
that kind of agenda that not only wins
the candidacy for the Democrats next
time around, but wins the country?
Well, that's the conclusion I've had
since I got to Congress, since I've been
fighting against the economic divides
that we've nation has had. We've seen
the hollowing out of Western
Pennsylvania with steel and Lorraine,
Ohio and in in Paintsville, Kentucky and
I've been traveling to factory towns and
rural communities since I got to
Congress talking about a nation that
cannot be divided into islands of
prosperity and seas of despair.
Substantively, we need to make sure that
every community and every family is
participating in the economic future.
I've articulated that vision in books
and I articulated that view in terms of
economic patriotism. It's not driven by
politics. I don't know whether the
politics of it is driven by a
substantive view of what this nation
needs to do to give people a stake in
the American dream. But has the message
become punchier because
that's what President Trump has perhaps
taught people right across the political
spectrum that the sharper your message
on social media, the blunter your words,
the more likely you are to cut through.
Well, I think that the message has
gotten sharper in terms of holding the
elites accountable with the Epstein
class and the work I have done and the
message has become more believable in
that I have shown the capacity to build
coalitions and get legislation through
that others thought was improbable, that
I have managed to get Donald Trump to
sign my bill. People often come up and
say, "Thank you for your work." more
than thank you for your advocacy. And I
think the American people are looking
for workhorses, for people who are
actually going to substantively improve
their lives. I guess what I'm really
asking is do you think a progressive
Democrat can win the candidacy and the
country in 2028, someone from your wing
of the party? Well, if Bernie Sanders
were 15 years younger, he would be the
next president of the United States.
Now, no one has his trust and popularity
on our wing, but I believe what will win
the country is someone who has a bold,
fresh economic vision combined with a
commitment to rights. Saying we're not
going to throw the immigrant community
under the bus. We're not going to throw
the black community under the bus by
bashing DEI. We're not going to throw
the LGBT or trans community under the
bus, that we are going to build a
cohesive, multiracial democracy where
everyone has an economic stake. That, in
my view, is where the heart and soul of
the American people are and we need
leadership that will inspire us to
fulfill that destiny. In our final
minutes, and I know politicians always
have to be really positive and
forward-looking and optimistic, but let
me behind
that for a moment. I'm not going to call
it a mask. I'm going to ask you, what
are the things you worry about? Like
if you wake up in the middle of the
night, what do you think could stand in
the way of all of that, the vision, the
dream?
Well, look, when you have a story like
mine, and my grandfather jailed twice by
British colonialism, my parents
immigrants to America, I was born in
Philadelphia in 1976,
grew up a middle-class life with a
chemical engineer father and a teacher's
assistant mother and took out a lot of
loans for higher education, but had
people who believed in me in Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, 97%, 98% white,
teachers who believed in me, Little
League coaches who believed in me. And
then this country elects me after having
served President Obama at the age of 40
to represent the most economically
consequential place, arguably, in the
history of the world, 1/3 of the stock
market in my district, a $20 billion
Apple, Google, Nvidia, Broadcom, Tesla.
You can't help but be hopeful about the
American story. We will be the first
cohesive, multiracial democracy in the
history of humanity. That will be our
civilizational accomplishment. What I
worry about is the pain and damage that
people will do in the meantime, the pain
and damage to immigrant families in our
country, the pain and damage to the
young schoolgirls who were killed in
Iran, the pain and damage to our service
members who lost their lives. There is
innumerable pain and damage that Donald
Trump can continue to do in the next 3
years. And while the trajectory of
American democracy, in my view, is on a
place that I would bet on, the violence
and hardships and suffering en route to
that destination is something that
concerns me, worries me, saddens me and
pains me. Congressman Ro Khanna, thank
you.
Thank you.
And that's where we left the
conversation. Before we leave you, I do
want to add that those unverified
allegations against President Trump that
were mentioned have been described by
White House press secretary Karoline
Leavitt as completely baseless. She says
Donald Trump has been totally exonerated
by the release of the Epstein files.
Elsewhere, Congressman Khanna alleged
that there had been a cover-up by the US
Department of Justice. In a letter to
lawmakers, the DOJ said it didn't redact
or withhold documents to protect
anyone's reputation or over political
sensitivities.
It is also said that documents are only
withheld if they fall into one of these
categories. They're a duplicate, they're
privileged, or they're part of an
ongoing federal investigation.
And just a reminder, the context around
every conversation is always there in my
notes [music]
to the written version and you'll find
those at bloomberg.com/michelle.
[music]